Web 2 vs Web 3 is a fundamental shift in the *purpose of a corporation*.

You may have heard of shareholder theory of value - that the purpose of a corporation is to maximize the share price for shareholders at any cost- including paying fines when profitable for polluting the planet, harming people, etc.

This has been the dominant purpose of a corporation for 5+ decades.

There's a new wave movement of "stakeholder" theory of value - that says, the purpose of a corporation is to maximize the value to stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, and communities they serve.

In practice, this is lipstick on a pig. It doesn't fundamentally challenge the systems and structure that a corporation is born from and lives in.

Web 3.0 offers us a new paradigm- community theory of value. One new example (airdropping tonight!) is Ethereum Name Service (ENS).

You may have heard of Domain Name Service (DNS), which is the international standard for turning an IP Address into a human readable domain (e.g. 69 63 176 13 => Facebook's website).

ENS is DNS but hosted via smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain for turning Ethereum addresses (e.g. 0x34fm30rf843FJ3...) into human readable addresses (charlieDAO.eth).

The group behind ENS had 0 venture capital investors. They generated revenue from selling their product and the product has matured tremendously over the last few years.

They decided it was time to "go public" - but not in the traditional sense. They won't be on the NYSE or NASDAQ. They won't be owned by shareholders.

Instead, they minted 100M $ENS tokens, saved 75% the treasury, and are giving 25% to the *community of past product users*.

Among those users are people who've been nominated to be *delegates* voting in a republic style for changes to the protocol and the community will pledge their tokens to delegates to increase their voting power.

Community owned, community controlled, community developed, and shareholders who've never even used the product have to buy from the community directly to get a piece of the action.

Could you imagine? What if LinkedIn gave stock shares to those who posted & commented here? If those shares had real voting power over changes to the feed algorithm & revenue activities? If we could delegate our shares to the people we think are good stewards of LinkedIn?

Instead, it's owned by people who don't even use it! 🤷

Web 3 will devour Web 2. Because open source, collaborative, decentralized & consensual >>>> closed source, adversarial, centralized, and exploitive.